---
layout: post
title: Feedback, It's All About You
author: LB
pitch: Feedback as a discovery exercise
---

Do you find it hard to give feedback to your teammates? If so, why do you think that is? Is it because you're not sure how they will react? Is it because you're afraid of what it might do to your relationship? Would you prefer not to rock that boat? If so, then I've got an idea for you - a visualization, if you will. What if you changed your frame of mind to believe that instead of _feedback,_ you were actually _investigating_ ... with intent to levelset?

That's right. What if you truly believed the motivation behind feedback was less about improving or making someone _else_ more aware of something and instead, more about _you_ learning about how your teammates think? What if you considered a feedback session as learning experience for you and not directed at the other person at all? What if _providing feedback_ is really a disguised opportunity to ask questions and learn more about the members of your team? Would that sort of perspective help motivate you to dig in a bit and initiate feedback?

Let's step back for a moment. Can you remember the last time you were in a situation that you read incorrectly? Maybe you got upset or frustrated when somebody did or said something that didn't make sense in the immediate context but which, after understanding the situation more completely, you realized you were, in fact, hasty, ill-informed and quite possibly, wrong? Now consider for a moment, the [Prime Directive](https://retrospectivewiki.org/index.php?title=The_Prime_Directive):

> Regardless of what we discover, we understand and truly believe that everyone did the best job they could, given what they knew at the time, their skills and abilities, the resources available, and the situation at hand.

So, what if, when you see some behavior that you don't immediately understand or agree with it, you consider it a gift? What if you use situations such as these as forcing functions to reach out and engage in level setting conversations with your teammates - not with the intention to criticize or change but with an objective for _you_ to learn, to have _your_ eyes opened, to see what _you_ missed.

At the end of the day, this approach is predicated on the idea of Trust. Instead of thinking of feedback as an attempt to change people, go in with the understanding that it is _you_ that got it wrong ... and that in fact, it is _you_ that will be changed. If you can take this step and make this mindset leap to change your feedback objectives to that of a **shared understanding** - then consider how much easier your teammates may receive (and, in fact, appreciate!) your effort.

Feedback. It's not about them, it's about you.
